# CS300
The ABCU_Course_Listing.cpp program is designed to read .csv files and use the data contained in the file to create a course schedule for the fictitious ABC University, who have requested such a program in order to assist their advising department. The aim of the program is to parse individual course information including course number, course name, and any prerequisites that the specific course may require; the other functions are designed to either print a course schedule in alphanumeric order, or to display a full outline of an individual course's information. This was done so while also considering run time efficiency, ensuring that the program not only ran successfully but also efficiently without taking too much time or computer power.
The data structures available to be chosen from included a vector, hash table, or binary search tree. I opted for the binary search tree, as the data structure presented optimal runtime efficiency compared to the other two structures; it should also be noted that the tree's construction automatically sorts the elements of the .csv, which in turn translates to being able to display the information in alphanumeric order using in order traversal without requiring extra functions for sorting.
Because of the gained experience with binary search trees as a result of previous modules in the CS300 course, the main roadblocks pertained to the acquisition of data from the .csv file and appropriately storing the pieces of datas in the correct variables within the course structure. This came from a certain level of inexperience with the functions and capabilities of fstream, but referring to the CSVparser.cpp and CSVparser.hpp from prior assignments did help to mitigate some issues, as well as contacting the instructor and utilizing certain posts to stackoverflow.com.
The work done on this project has helped my experience with unfamiliar data structures grow exponentially; the nature of this course was initially not within my realm of knowledge, but the work done on previous assignments as well as this project have increased both my comfort and knowledge with the subject matter. Having only ever dealt with arrays and vectors within the C++ prior to these assignments, I now have a firmer understanding of why different data structures exist and which applications determine why choosing one structure over another can provide a multitude of benefits to both the programming process and the finished application as a whole. The work done in this .cpp allows the reading of .csv files other than the intended one used for the assignment, making the application adaptable to other applications that require storing and sorting data. The comments within the .cpp also supply rationalization for how the program works, which supplements both the readability and maintainability of the program.
